---

copyright:
  years:  2024, 2025
lastupdated: "2025-07-11"

keywords:

subcollection: cloud-logs

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}



# Configuring unique count alerts
{: #alerts-config-unique-count}

As data volumes grow and the number of alerts that are generated by logs, metrics, and security systems exponentially increases, one of the most powerful indicators of alert importance is the number of elements affected by the alert. Examples can include: the number of users who encountered a 5XX error when calling an API, the number of Kafka consumer groups that returned errors, the number of CDN locations that are currently loading your site for more than 3 seconds, or the number of different passwords that a single user attempts to log in with to your cloud service console.
{: shortdesc}

The unique count alert is triggered based on the number of unique values associated with a specified key in logs matching the query criteria.

This type of alert can help you understand the severity or breadth of a potential issue without having to analyze the data or dashboards.


{{/_include-segments/alerts-prereq.md}}


{{/_include-segments/alerts-alerts-mgmt.md}}


{{/_include-segments/alerts-choose-type.md}}


{{/_include-segments/alerts-choose-logs.md}}


## Specify the triggering condition
{: step}
{: #alerts-config-4-uc}


Specify the triggering condition that is evaluated against the data included for analysis for this alert.

In the *Conditions* section, you must configure **Unique count by key**, **Max unique values** and **In timeframe**.

1. In **Unique count by key** select the key you want to monitor.

2. For **Max unique values** specify the maximum number of unique values for the **Unique count by key** key within the monitored timeframe before the alert is triggered.

3. For **In timeframe** select the timeframe to be monitored for unique values. The time frame can be in selected intervals from `1 minute` to `36 hours`.

You can also group values of the key specified by **Unique count by key** by a second key by selecting **Group unique count per specific key** and then configuring the following:

1. In **Group by key** select the key to be used to group the key values of the key specified in **Unique count by key**.

2. Using the **Max unique values for group by key** slider, indicate the unique values that are grouped by **Group by key**. The **Max unique count values should not exceed** value is calculated based on your slider selection. Since the overall maximum overall count is limited to 10000, the **Max unique count values should not exceed** cannot exceed the displayed value times the **Unique values** value.

For example, if **Unique values** is 663, the **Max unique count values should not exceed** is 15 since 663 * 15 = 9945. In this case a **Max unique count values should not exceed** of 16 would be greater than the overall allowed maximum count of 10000.

When the **Max unique count values should not exceed** threshold is reached for the key group, the alert is triggered.


{{/_include-segments/alerts-config-notif.md}}


{{/_include-segments/alerts-set-schedule.md}}


{{/_include-segments/alerts-save-config.md}}


{{/_include-segments/alerts-next-steps.md}}

