---

copyright:
  years:  2024, 2025
lastupdated: "2025-11-13"

keywords:

subcollection: cloud-logs


---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}


# {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} extension
{: #extensions-db-cloudant}

In {{site.data.keyword.logs_full}}, you can use the {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} extension to gain insights into logs that are generated in an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account.
{: shortdesc}

[{{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}}](/docs/Cloudant?topic=Cloudant-getting-started-with-cloudant) is a fully managed NoSQL database service that offers scalability capabilities for developers and businesses. It allows users to effortlessly handle large volumes of data and high traffic loads with minimal maintenance. Built on CouchDB technology with compatible API and replication protocols, {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} supports flexible, schema-free JSON document storage, which is ideal for applications that require rapid, iterative development and dynamic data structures. Its high availability and automated failover ensure 99.99% SLA reliability and minimal downtime. {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} also integrates seamlessly with other {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} services, providing a cohesive ecosystem for developing and managing modern applications.

## Before you begin
{: #extensions-db-cloudant-overview}

With this extension, you can create a dashboard designed to visualize and analyze logs from the {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} service. The dashboard lets you track database performance, detect errors, analyze memory usage and commands, and provides valuable insights to optimize caching and data storage operations.

In {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}, logs that are generated by {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} services (known as platform logs) include metadata fields that you can use to enhance searches and analyze the data.
- `applicationName`: The application name is the environment that produces and sends logs to {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}. It is set to `ibm-platform-logs`.
- `subsystemName`: The subsystem name is the service or application that produces and sends logs to {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}. It is set to `cloudantnosqldb:<instanceID>` where `<instanceID>` is the {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} instance ID.

In {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}, you must configure {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} to route logs to the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} service.

Before you can monitor logs that are generated in an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account, you must configure the {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} service in the account to define the destination where you want to monitor the logs.

- You can configure 1 or more {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instances in the account.
- Platform logs generated in the region are routed to the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance configured in {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}}. The {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance can be in the same region, or in a different region, in the account.
- You must define a service to service authorization between {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} and {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} to grant permissions to the {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} service to send logs to the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} service.

For more information, see:
- [Getting started with {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}}](/docs/logs-router?topic=logs-router-getting-started)
- [{{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} logging](/docs/Cloudant?topic=Cloudant-log-analysis-integration)

## What this extension deploys
{: #extensions-db-cloudant-deploys}

This extension includes one or more items.

| Includes | Number |
|----------|--------|
| [Alerts](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-alerts) | 1 |
| [Dashboards](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-about_dashboards) | 1 |
| [Enrichments](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-enriching-data) | 0 |
| [Events to metrics](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-configure-event2metrics) | 0 |
| [Rules](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-log_parsing_rules) | 1 |
| [Views](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-custom_views) | 0  |
{: caption="Items included when extension is deployed" caption-side="bottom"}

Before deploying this extension, make sure that deploying the extension will not cause you to exceed [limits for your {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-limits). If deploying the extension results in limits being exceeded, the deployment will fail.
{: tip}

## Deploying the extension
{: #extensions-db-cloudant-deploy}

You can deploy this extension in any {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance that collects {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} logs. This extension includes a set of pre-configured resources such as dashboards and alerts that help you monitor critical metrics, identify anomalies, and optimize your system's performance.

For more information about deploying the extension, see [Deploying, managing, and removing {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} extensions](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-extensions-mgmt).


{{/_include-segments/extensions-validate.md}}

## Dashboard
{: #extensions-db-cloudant-dashboards}

One dashboard is provided providing data about {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} logs. This dashboard is designed to visualize and analyze logs from the {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} service.

The dashboard includes:

* Total log count
* Actions by service in line view
* List by database and action by `dbName`
* List by client and action by `ClientIP`
* Response by `statusCode`
* List of `statusCode` and `method`
* Request information by `httpMethod`
* List of `dbRequest`
* Detailed information about requests and methods


## Alert
{: #extensions-db-cloudant-alerts}

You can deploy the following alert:

* `IBM Cloudant - HTTP error responses detected`: One or more HTTP requests to the {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} service returned status codes greater than 400, indicating client or server errors (for example, 4xx or 5xx). These responses might point to issues such as authentication failures, invalid requests, rate limiting, or internal server problems.

## Rules
{: #extensions-db-cloudant-rules}

You can deploy a rule to replace message text to avoid mapping exceptions.
