---

copyright:
  years:  2024, 2025
lastupdated: "2025-05-20"

keywords:

subcollection: cloud-logs


---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}


# {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-mysql_full}} extension
{: #extensions-db-mysql}

In {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}, you can use the {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-mysql_full}} extension to gain insights into logs that are generated in an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account.
{: shortdesc}


## Before you begin
{: #extensions-db-mysql-overview}

With this extension, you can create a dashboard that allows you to visualize and analyze logs from {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-mysql_full}}. This extension provides visibility into log data to monitor performance, detect errors, and ensure operational health. It structures log messages and enables alerts for critical issues such as service downtime, SSL failures, and replication errors.

In {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}, logs that are generated by {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} services (known as platform logs) include metadata fields that you can use to enhance searches and analyze the data.
- `applicationName`: The application name is the environment that produces and sends logs to {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}. It is set to `ibm-platform-logs`.
- `subsystemName`: The subsystem name is the service or application that produces and sends logs to {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}. It is set to `database-for-mysql:<instanceID>` where `<instanceID>` is the {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-mysql_full}} instance ID.

In {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}, you must configure {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} to route logs to the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} service.

Before you can monitor logs that are generated in an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account, you must configure the {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} service in the account to define the destination where you want to monitor the logs.

- You can configure 1 or more {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instances in the account.
- Platform logs generated in the region are routed to the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance configured in {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}}. The {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance can be in the same region, or in a different region, in the account.
- You must define a service to service authorization between {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} and {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} to grant permissions to the {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} service to send logs to the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} service.

For more information, see:
- [Getting started with {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}}](/docs/logs-router?topic=logs-router-getting-started)
- [{{site.data.keyword.databases-for-mysql_full}} logging](/docs/databases-for-mysql?topic=databases-for-mysql-logging)

## What this extension deploys
{: #extensions-db-mysql-deploys}

This extension includes one or more items.

| Includes | Number |
|----------|--------|
| [Alerts](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-alerts) | 4 |
| [Dashboards](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-about_dashboards) | 1 |
| [Enrichments](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-enriching-data) | 0 |
| [Events to metrics](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-configure-event2metrics) | 0 |
| [Rules](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-log_parsing_rules) | 2 |
| [Views](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-custom_views) | 0  |
{: caption="Items included when extension is deployed" caption-side="bottom"}

Before deploying this extension, make sure that deploying the extension will not cause you to exceed [limits for your {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-limits). If deploying the extension results in limits being exceeded, the deployment will fail.
{: tip}

## Deploying the extension
{: #extensions-db-mysql-deploy}

You can deploy this extension in any {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance that collects {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-mysql_full}} logs. This extension includes a set of pre-configured resources such as dashboards, views, and alerts that help you monitor critical metrics, identify anomalies, and optimize your system's performance.

For more information about deploying the extension, see [Deploying, managing, and removing {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} extensions](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-extensions-mgmt).


{{/_include-segments/extensions-validate.md}}

## Dashboard
{: #extensions-db-mysql-dashboards}

One dashboard is provided providing data about {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-mysql_full}} logs including:

* Total log count
* Logs received over time
* Logs by severity
* Logs by database member
* Actions with password

## Alerts
{: #extensions-db-mysql-alerts}

You can deploy any of the following alerts:

* `Logs not detected in the last hour`: No logs received from the MySQL service in the past hour, possibly due to logging misconfiguration, service downtime, or connectivity issues.
* `Instance shutdown detected`: The database instance is shutting down within the last 10 minutes, potentially causing service interruptions or database unavailability.
* `Issue with SSL certificate`: A problem has been detected with the SSL certificate, which might lead to insecure database connections or connectivity issues.
* `Sync source to replica issue`: A critical error occurred during database synchronization, potentially leading to data inconsistency or replication failure.

## Rules
{: #extensions-db-mysql-rules}

You can deploy any of the following rules:

* `Replace the message text to avoid mapping exceptions`: Replaces the `message` key with `MySQLMessage` to avoid ingestion or [mapping exceptions](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-query-mapping-exceptions) in the logging pipeline.
* `Extract the log message into the log_message field`: Extracts the full content of `message.message` into a new field `log_message` to simplify search, analysis, and alerting.

 
