---

copyright:
  years:  2024, 2025
lastupdated: "2025-11-13"

keywords:

subcollection: cloud-logs


---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}


# {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-redis_full_notm}} extension
{: #extensions-db-redis}

In {{site.data.keyword.logs_full}}, you can use the {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-redis_full_notm}} extension to gain insights into logs that are generated in an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account.
{: shortdesc}


## Before you begin
{: #extensions-db-redis-overview}

With this extension, you can create a dashboard designed to visualize and analyze logs from the {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-redis_full_notm}} service. The dashboard lets you track database performance, detect errors, analyze memory usage and commands, and provides valuable insights to optimize caching and data storage operations.

In {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}, logs that are generated by {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} services (known as platform logs) include metadata fields that you can use to enhance searches and analyze the data.
- `applicationName`: The application name is the environment that produces and sends logs to {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}. It is set to `ibm-platform-logs`.
- `subsystemName`: The subsystem name is the service or application that produces and sends logs to {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}. It is set to `database-for-redis:<instanceID>` where `<instanceID>` is the {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-redis_full_notm}} instance ID.

In {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}, you must configure {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} to route logs to the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} service.

Before you can monitor logs that are generated in an {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account, you must configure the {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} service in the account to define the destination where you want to monitor the logs.

- You can configure 1 or more {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instances in the account.
- Platform logs generated in the region are routed to the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance configured in {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}}. The {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance can be in the same region, or in a different region, in the account.
- You must define a service to service authorization between {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} and {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} to grant permissions to the {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} service to send logs to the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} service.

For more information, see:
- [Getting started with {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}}](/docs/logs-router?topic=logs-router-getting-started)
- [{{site.data.keyword.databases-for-redis_full_notm}} logging](/docs/databases-for-redis?topic=databases-for-redis-logging)

## What this extension deploys
{: #extensions-db-redis-deploys}

This extension includes one or more items.

| Includes | Number |
|----------|--------|
| [Alerts](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-alerts) | 1 |
| [Dashboards](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-about_dashboards) | 1 |
| [Enrichments](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-enriching-data) | 0 |
| [Events to metrics](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-configure-event2metrics) | 0 |
| [Rules](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-log_parsing_rules) | 2 |
| [Views](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-custom_views) | 0  |
{: caption="Items included when extension is deployed" caption-side="bottom"}

Before deploying this extension, make sure that deploying the extension will not cause you to exceed [limits for your {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-limits). If deploying the extension results in limits being exceeded, the deployment will fail.
{: tip}

## Deploying the extension
{: #extensions-db-redis-deploy}

You can deploy this extension in any {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance that collects {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-redis_full_notm}} logs. This extension includes a set of pre-configured resources such as dashboards and alerts that help you monitor critical metrics, identify anomalies, and optimize your system's performance.

For more information about deploying the extension, see [Deploying, managing, and removing {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} extensions](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-extensions-mgmt).


{{/_include-segments/extensions-validate.md}}

## Dashboard
{: #extensions-db-redis-dashboards}

One dashboard is provided providing data about {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-redis_full_notm}} logs. This dashboard is designed to visualize and analyze logs from the {{site.data.keyword.databases-for-redis_full_notm}} service. 

The dashboard includes:

* Total log count
* Log count by member
* Log count by user
* List of databases
* Actions
* Actions by database
* Rewrite config count
* Error stream
* Count of started sync
* Count of successful sync
* Sync messages


## Alert
{: #extensions-db-redis-alerts}

You can deploy the following alert:

* `IBM Redis - REWRITE CONFIG`: The `REWRITECONFIG` command was executed, indicating that the Redis configuration file was rewritten based on current in-memory settings. This suggests that someone (or an automated process) might have changed the Redis configuration at runtime. Such changes can impact performance, availability, or stability, and can lead to unexpected errors if not properly validated.

## Rules
{: #extensions-db-redis-rules}

You can deploy any of the following rules:

* `Redis - Replace message text to avoid Mapping Exceptions`
* `IBM Redis - Extract DBUser`
