---

copyright:
  years:  2024
lastupdated: "2024-04-02"

keywords:

subcollection: cloud-logs

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Steps after you migrate from {{site.data.keyword.la_full_notm}} or {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}}
{: #post_migration}

After you migrate your {{site.data.keyword.la_full}} or {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} instance configuration to {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}, you need to complete some additional steps to meet your production needs.
{: shortdesc}


## Steps after you generate your resources
{: #migpost-steps}


After you run the migration tool, you must:

* Review the exceptions report generated by the tool and handle any resources that cannot be migrated or items that require manual intervention.

* Review the Terraform generated by the migration tool. Make any required changes before you apply the Terraform scripts.

* Review IAM resources.

    [Service to service authorizations](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-iam-service-auth)

    [IAM permissions](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-iam&interface=ui)

    When you migrate, you must review the IAM permissions and authorizations in your account. Migration moves instances from 2 different services into 1 type of service. Look for permissions where roles conflict.

    After you apply your IAM model, you must regenerate any service ID API keys and user API keys.

* Update DevOps processes to include {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}. You can reuse the Terraform provided.

* Configure the {{site.data.keyword.en_full_notm}} integration and configure it to handle alert notifications.

* Configure integrations and logging agents to send data to your {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance.

* If archiving was not configured for your {{site.data.keyword.la_full_notm}} or {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} instance, you might want to configure a data bucket and a metrics bucket for the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}. These buckets are required to be able to use features such as TCO policies and Events2metrics.



## Steps after you migrate 1 instance
{: #migpost-steps1}

After you migrate 1 instance:

* Update DevOps processes to include {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}. You can reuse the Terraform provided.

* Verify the {{site.data.keyword.en_full_notm}} integration is working and alert notifications are generated.

* Configure IAM permissions to work with this instance.

    [Service to service authorizations](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-iam-service-auth). Some authorizations are created when you migrate 1 instance, such as the COS S2S authorization, the Event Notifications one, the Activity Tracker Event Routing one.

    [IAM permissions](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-iam&interface=ui)

* Validate the configured {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance to determine that the system is operating as intended.

* Delete the {{site.data.keyword.la_full_notm}} and {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} instances you no longer require.

* Configure integrations and logging agents to send data to your {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance.

* If archiving was not configured for your {{site.data.keyword.la_full_notm}} or {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} instance, you might want to configure a data bucket and a metrics bucket for the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}. These buckets are required to be able to use features such as TCO policies and Events2metrics.




## Steps after you migrate all instances
{: #migpost-stepsall}

After you migrate all instances:

* Configure IAM access across the account.

    [Service to service authorizations](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-iam-service-auth)

    [IAM permissions](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-iam&interface=ui)

* Validate the configured {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instances to determine that the system is operating as intended.

* Delete the {{site.data.keyword.la_full_notm}} and {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} instances you no longer require.

* Remove context-based restrictions and IAM policies that were configured for {{site.data.keyword.la_full_notm}} or {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}}. You can [generate an activity report for the account](/apidocs/iam-identity-token-api#create-report) to help you determine configured policies.

* Migrate your {{site.data.keyword.atracker_full_notm}} configuration to define how to route activity tracking events in the account.

* Update DevOps processes to include {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}. You can reuse the Terraform provided.
