---

copyright:
  years:  2024, 2025
lastupdated: "2025-05-16"

keywords:

subcollection: cloud-logs

content-type: release-note

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Release notes for {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}
{: #logs-release-notes}

Use these release notes to learn about the latest updates to {{site.data.keyword.logs_full}}.
{: shortdesc}





## xx April 2025
{: #cloud-logs-aprxx25}
{: release-note}


[DataPrime] DataPrime enhancements
:   DataPrime now support the [`multigrouby` operator](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-dataprime-ref#multigroupby).

    DataPrime now supports the [`union` operator](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-dataprime-ref#union).

    DataPrime now supports the [`join cross` operator](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-dataprime-ref#join)

    DataPrime now supports passing of query parameter values using [`$p`](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-query-parameters).

[UI] Fast mode
:   [Fast Mode](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-compact-views) provides a simplified and streamlined view, enabling users to focus on active monitoring and querying without additional widgets, filters, or statistics.

[UI] Shared URL
:   Enhancements added to the [share the URL functionality](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-share_url) so you can share a URL of the the current view of the logs explore screen.

[Custom dashboards] Variable support
:   [Variables](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-variables) can be configured as a placeholder for a value that is used in queries. When used in custom dashboards, your dashboard's queries update to display data for that value.

Fixes implemented
:   The following issues are resolved.

    [Alerts] Fixed an issue where the `log_example` field in an alert notification was sometimes including a null value.

    [Custom Dashboards] Fixed an issue where widgets from metrics data were intermittently failing to load.

    [API] Fixed an issue in the alerts list API where the `notification_payload_filters` field contained empty values.

    [Data Usage] Fixed an issue in the data usage graph where usage for some days was displayed as null.

    [UI] Fixed multiple issue where the display of some screens in dark mode was broken.

    [Alerts] Fixed an issue where `condition_timeframe` in notification didn't match the time frame/window defined in the alert configuration.





## 24 February 2025
{: #cloud-logs-feb2425}
{: release-note}

Geo enrichment
:   [Geo enrichment](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-enriching-data#geo-enrichment) now supports ASN (Autonomous System Number). ASN information will be added to the logs when geo enrichment is used.

[DataPrime] DataPrime enhancements
:   DataPrime now support the [`join` operator](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-dataprime-ref#join) types `inner`, `full`, and `left`.

    DataPrime now supports the [`stitch` operator](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-dataprime-ref#stitch).

[UI] Shared URL
:   Support added so you can [share the URL](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-share_url) of the the current view of the logs explore screen.

Fixes implemented
:   The following issues are resolved.
    - [UI] Resolved the issue in the custom dashboard where no data was shown in widgets when querying logs from priority insights.
    - [UI] Resolved the issued where livetail did not display UTF-8 encoded characters.
    - [UI] Resolve the issue when expanding the info panel hid the contents behind the navigation menu.



## 6 February 2025
{: #cloud-logs-feb0625}
{: release-note}

Context-based restrictions
:  {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} now supports context-based restrictions (CBR). For more information see, [Protecting resources with context-based restrictions](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-iam-cbr&interface=ui).

## 5 February 2025
{: #cloud-logs-feb0525}
{: release-note}

Notice regarding successful {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} read activity tracking events
:   {{site.data.keyword.atracker_full_notm}} drops successful `cloud-object-storage.object.read` events that are initiated by {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instances because they are not needed. For more information see [Why am I not seeing successful read activity tracking events for {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} activity generated by {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}?](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-ts-cos-events).

Documentation about using regex for queries
:   Additional information is available about using regex for queries. For more information, see [Using regex when querying data](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-query-regex).

## 12 December 2024
{: #cloud-logs-dec1224}
{: release-note}

[UI]\[LiveTail] Livetail support
:   Livetail now supports `Application` and `Subsystem` drop-down filters which can be used to filter logs based on `Application` and `Subsystem`.

Fixes implemented
:   The following issues are resolved.
    - [Query] - Fixed an issue where running a query in `All Logs` would result in a "Query Failed" message with no results returned even if the query ran up to the maximum timeout of 5 minutes.
    - [Alerts] - Fixed an error where Metric alerts were not triggering notifications. 
    - [UI]\[Logs] - Fixed an issue where the selected keys in the `Content` column are reset when switching between `Priority Insights` and `All Logs`. 

## 25 November 2024
{: #cloud-logs-nov2524}
{: release-note}

Fixes implemented
:   The following issues are resolved.   
    - [API]\[Views] - Fixed a bug where setting `quick_selection` using the API sets a custom selection in the UI.
    - [UI]\[TCO] - Resolved an error when clicking **Reset all overrides** resulted in displaying `ERROR: Failed to reset all overrides`.
    - [API]\[View Folder] - Fixed failure when updating view folders through the API.
    - [API]\[Events2Metrics] - Fixed failure when updating Events to Metrics rules through the API.
    - [Query] - Fixed query errors when using longer query windows, for example, for 6 or 12 hours.
    - [UI] - Fixed an error where the dashboard login displayed intermittent HTTP 500 errors.
    - [UI] - Fixed log highlighting for `surrounding logs` improving the ability to view the context around the logs. 
    - [Alerts] - Fixed an error where the alert payload was not sent as valid JSON.
    - [UI]\[TCO] - Fixed an error where editing an existing TCO policy would wait to refresh for a long time.

## 6 November 2024
{: #cloud-logs-nov0624}
{: release-note}

Fixes implemented
:   The following issue is resolved. 
    - Fixed custom dashboards displaying "Something went wrong" when selecting Analyze and Alert.



## 18 September 2024
{: #cloud-logs-sep1824}
{: release-note}

CSE endpoint support
:   {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} now supports [CSE endpoints](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-cse_proxy).

## 4 September 2024
{: #cloud-logs-sep0424}
{: release-note}

Documentation updates affecting {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} and {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}}
:   Significant documentation updates have been made to the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} and {{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} documentation sets with information related to using agents to send data to {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} moved from the [{{site.data.keyword.logs_routing_full_notm}} documentation](/docs/logs-router) to the [{{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} documentation](/docs/cloud-logs).

## 29 August 2024
{: #cloud-logs-aug2924}
{: release-note}

Osaka (`jp-osa`) and Sao Paulo (`br-sao`) region support
:   Osaka and Sao Paulo are now online regions for the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} service in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}. {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instances can now be provisioned in Osaka and Sao Paulo.


## 22 August 2024
{: #cloud-logs-aug2224}
{: release-note}

London (`eu-gb`), Sydney (`au-syd`), and Tokyo (`jp-tok`) region support
:   London, Sydney, and Tokyo are now online regions for the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} service in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}. {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instances can now be provisioned in London, Sydney, and Tokyo.

## 8 August 2024
{: #cloud-logs-aug0824}
{: release-note}

Washington (`us-east`) and Dallas (`us-south`) region support
:   Washington and Dallas are now online regions for the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} service in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}. {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instances can now be provisioned in Washington and Dallas.

## 30 July 2024
{: #cloud-logs-jul2424}
{: release-note}

Toronto (`ca-tor`) region support
:   Toronto is now an online region for the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} service in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}. {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instances can now be provisioned in Toronto.


## 24 June 2024
{: #cloud-logs-jun2424}
{: release-note}

{{site.data.keyword.logs_full}} is generally available
:   {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} is a service in the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.

   For more information about the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} service, see [Getting started with {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-getting-started&interface=cli).
